This is one of the technologies
that we've got at Apple that
I think has tremendous potential.
And there are a lot of developers
that are already taking advantage
of Sherlock channels today,
particularly on intranets
and within corporations,
to deliver internal web
services to their customers.
And there's some really cool
Sherlock channels that have
appeared from third parties.
that you've probably played with.
And so this is a great, we think,
Sherlock channels,
and people are finding that
Sherlock channels are a great way
to actually get onto Mac OS X if
they don't know Cocoa or Carbon,
in fact.
If they can use their expertise
in JavaScript and XML,
they can get onto the platform and
take advantage of some technology
that's there to deliver some
services on Mac OS X without
having to write a fully native app.
That's certainly one
advantage people have seen.
And there's lots of others that
we'll get into in this session.
So I'd like to invite
Wayne Lufro on stage,
and he's going to talk
you through the specifics.
Wayne runs the engineering team that's
responsible for Sherlock channels.
Thanks, and welcome to the last of the
Internet Technology Sessions:
Delivering
Web Services Using Sherlock Channels.
So in this session,
we're going to talk about how to deliver
web services using Sherlock channels.
And we'll talk about, well,
what are web services?
When is using a channel to
implement web services a good idea?
How to get started,
and some of the new things
that we've provided in Panther.
So what you'll learn is first what's
new in Sherlock the application,
some of the developer opportunities,
the structure of a Sherlock channel,
and then some of the details
about how to develop a channel,
as well as some of the new features
for Sherlock channel developers.
And then we'll get into
some advanced topics.
So first,
what's new in Sherlock the application?
Well, so when we thought about doing a
new version of Sherlock for Panther,
we wanted to do three things.
We wanted to enhance
the existing channels.
We wanted to improve the performance.
And we also wanted to provide a solution
for the channel management problem.
So in particular, with channels,
one of the channels that we put a lot of
effort into is the Yellow Pages channel.
And we've had some requests
to add white pages,
which we've done.
And we've also added some additional
features to the Yellow Pages themselves,
which we'll talk about in a bit.
For performance,
we rewrote the XQuery engine from the
ground up and made it two to three
times faster in the Panther release,
as well as more conformant with
the emerging XQuery standard.
We've also made substantial improvements
in launch time for the application,
as well as channel
switching between channels.
As far as channel
management is concerned,
there's been, with all the third-party
channels that have come out,
your toolbar gets pretty busy
and it's often hard to find the
channel that you're looking for.
So we've provided a solution to
organize your channels that's
patterned after the Safari bookmarks.
In addition, we found that folks were
really interested in using a
bunch of third-party channels,
but they didn't know where to find them.
And you had to kind of do a
Google search and rummage around
to try to find where they are.
So we decided to build the third-party
channels directly into the application.
So first, the phone book.
You'll notice that on the left side,
there is a little control to
decide whether you're searching
white pages or yellow pages.
But in addition,
we've had a lot of requests
for category-based searching.
If I want to search for
Japanese restaurants,
I'm not really looking for a business
that has Japanese restaurant in its name.
I would really like to be able
to find by category instead
of just by business name.
So we support both in Panther.
The other request we got a lot
was being able to find near
not just a zip code or a city,
but also near a very specific address.
I'm going to this theater,
I want to find the nearby restaurants.
And then we made printing
from your phone book easier as
well with a one-button print.
The channels view is the solution
to the channel management problem.
Your toolbar just gets too crowded
putting everything in the toolbar.
So we looked at the way Safari did
bookmarks and we patterned the
Sherlock channel management view after
the way Safari bookmarks are done.
And this allows you to control
both what's in your toolbar,
what's in your channel menu,
as well as have direct access to all
the channels that Apple provides,
even those that are for other countries.
And we've added a view
for third-party channels.
And this is where we showcase all of
your channels and make them easily
available to users so they can find them,
drag the ones they like to the toolbar,
or even create their own collections.
It's also the place where the
channel development tools show up.
So if you're a channel developer and you
enable the channel development tools,
you'll see them show up
in the channels view.
So to demonstrate this,
I'd like to invite Jessica Kahn,
the Sherlock Channel Development Lead,
up.
Welcome, Jess.
First we're going to show the phone book.
So as you'll note,
on the left side there's a control
for white pages and yellow pages.
Right now we're in yellow pages mode.
The first field there is the
business name or category field.
And if you notice,
as Jessica starts typing,
it automatically auto-completes
to one of the categories.
In this case, she typed "restaurants"
and it auto-completed after
just a few characters.
And you'll note that in the pop-up,
we show maybe some
variations on restaurants.
So you can choose a particular one.
For example,
say I want to look for Indian food.
I choose Indian.
The next field over is
the Find Near field.
And just like before,
you can type zip codes and city names.
But the thing we've added is that
it auto-completes city names.
So it has a database of cities.
And as you start to type,
it auto-completes and you'll see
San Francisco with just a few characters.
The other thing it supports
is it directly supports your
address book and auto-completion.
So for example,
if you want to find restaurants
near a friend of yours,
you could type the name of
a friend of yours in there.
Or in this case,
we've added Moscone Center to our
address book because we've been
coming to Moscone Center a lot.
So we'd like to see what
restaurants are near Moscone Center.
And as you see, as Jessica types,
it auto-completes from the address book.
And then when you do the search,
you'll find Indian restaurants
near the Moscone Center.
And driving directions to boot.
Maybe walking directions.
So, right.
So the other thing we'd like to
show is the channel management view.
Now, we're showing the, as noted,
there's a toolbar and a channels menu,
which allows you to control
what's in the toolbar,
what's in the channels menu.
But we also provide access
to all the Apple channels,
so if you decide you want
to use some or others,
you can toss them from your toolbar
and then decide later to go back and
put the ones you're interested in.
Or if you'd like, you could...
So let's go back to the Apple channels.
So what Jessica's done is added the
Japanese news channel to the toolbar.
And if we decide we no longer
want the Japanese news channel,
we can also remove it from
the toolbar just as easily.
You'll also note that
at the bottom there,
there's a grouping called My Channels.
Now, you can actually create as
many of these as you like.
It's really a lot like the left
column on iTunes where you can
create your own music collections.
Well, here you're creating
collections of channels.
So let's say there are
particular favorites I have.
I could select a number of channels.
And then drag them right to my channels.
And then that's provided a custom
collection of the channels that
I might like to use together.
And then finally,
and maybe the most importantly
for the folks in this audience,
we've added other channels,
which is really where all
of your channels shine.
It gives customers direct access to
all the creativity that's out there.
It provides a listing of
the channel names as well as
descriptions of each channel,
which you can customize in
your channel on the web.
So these channels, there are two sources
for this information.
One is the DMOS open source directory,
which is where we get an initial listing.
But also,
if you're interested in making sure
that your channel shows up in this list,
you're welcome to submit
your channel to Apple.
And we'll talk a bit about the
submission process a little bit later.
So, thank you, Jess.
So let's go back to slides.
So Sherlock is web services
for the rest of us.
But what are web services?
Maybe web services are SOAP or
.NET or WSDL or UDDI or any
of a number of buzzwords,
but we don't think that's
what web services are.
Web services are airline reservations,
movie listings, yellow pages,
translating things, shopping,
finding things on the net.
That's really what web
services are to a customer.
So what we try to do is deliver
web services in a way that
customers would like to see them.
But there are a number of
challenges in doing this.
One is integration of information.
Information can really
come from many sources.
And so in order to present
the user one unified view,
you'd really like to integrate it
from a number of different places.
And you can do this in a web page.
However,
the traditional method of doing this in
a web page is to create frames and to
have some information in one frame and
another information in another frame.
But what we'd like to do instead is to
bring this information together in a way
that not just displays the information,
but really harnesses it and allows you
to interact with a unified interface,
rather than just seeing the
information that's there.
So the other challenge is
providing a user interface.
And on the web, of course,
you can create fairly
creative user interfaces,
but there are limits to it.
And what users really want is
a native Aqua user interface.
And so what Sherlock does is provide
a native user interface that users
prefer in the context of a web service.
Another challenge is change.
So let's say you deliver a
web service as an application,
but your information source changes.
Maybe what you had to do in order
to get certain information was to
screen scrape a particular site.
Well, what happens if that site changes?
Your application breaks.
You have to, you know,
your users are now out to lunch
for a while until you give them
a new version of the application.
So we have to be able
to deal with change.
Another challenge is security.
Users aren't necessarily
comfortable downloading a binary
application on their disk.
They're very comfortable browsing
web pages and following URLs because
those provide a sandbox environment.
So you'd really also like something
that has that capability easily.
You can get to it easily
through a single link.
You'd like to be in a
sandbox environment.
So, excuse me, I'm going to take a drink.
So what Sherlock Web Services provide
are a native user interface.
They're easy to create.
They provide sandbox security.
They also support changes on the
web because they live on the web.
The Sherlock channel
doesn't reside on your disk.
It resides on the web.
And so when you make changes on the web,
it's reflected immediately.
Additionally, they integrate multiple
sources of information.
So instead of just displaying bits of
information from the web in one page,
they allow you to actually
harness that information and
do computation based on it.
Maybe you take a city and state
and look up a zip code and then
use that zip code to query another
site to get some information
about what theaters are available.
And then you might use that theater list
to query another site to find out what
movies and show times are available.
And much like web pages,
they are accessible by a web link.
You can click a single URL and
get a Sherlock channel to come up.
Much like applications,
you can put them in the dock.
You can actually save a
shortcut to a Sherlock channel,
put it in your dock,
and in a single click,
you've opened that web service.
And we've added third-party
channels to Sherlock to make
them much more easy to find.
So one question is when do you
want to create a channel versus,
say, a web page or an application?
One way to think about it
is that a channel is kind of
somewhere in between the two.
So when you want something
that's more than a web page,
you want more of a native user interface,
but you don't want something as
complex as an application or that
maybe to some users may be interpreted
as having some risk of downloading it,
then you might want to
choose a Sherlock channel.
We're very,
very pleased with the number of
third-party channels and the creativity
out there in creating channels.
And I'd like to demonstrate one
of the third-party channels.
I'd like to invite Kevin Agren, the
Senior Business Development Manager of
Version Tracker.
First of all, thanks for having us out.
I'm here to talk about two reasons.
First one being why we chose
to do a Sherlock channel.
Second one being how it's going
to benefit Version Tracker
today and in the long haul.
We know right now that we have the
world's biggest Mac software database.
We're tracking over 30,000 applications.
But what we're seeing is that some
users would rather view this offline
or in a Sherlock channel versus seeing
this just on the version tracker site.
Mostly what we feel is that the
clean interface of Sherlock and
the quick search functions
versus coming to a website,
especially if you're looking
for multiple products,
The Sherlock channel can
offer you a much cleaner look,
the information you want right away,
and it's very accurate as well.
In the polls,
what we've seen is a lot of people
now are coming over and using
Sherlock as a primary user interface
versus going through the web.
We also see that
Apple put this in the doc,
and so strategically as a business,
to be part of Sherlock for
version tracker is very important.
The channel development for us was almost
as fluid as doing a web page because it's
already built and it's a simple XML feed,
so we're pulling content
down right into it.
As far as the business benefits,
I'm just going to take a quick run
here on the version tracker channel.
And so what you can see here is that
this is today's Mac software updates.
You can also easily do this by a
search if you go in for Sherlock.
You're going to pull up not
only Apple Sherlock here,
but every other application that's
going to be relevant to it as well.
Search this in Sherlock.
You're going to save time.
You're also going to be able to look
at many applications versus what's
going to be found in our database.
The important part as a business for
Version Tracker is that we're also
a media company on top of building
our own software applications.
A lot of our revenue comes
from advertising dollars,
and when users decide to click a page,
they're going to come
on to Version Tracker.
And we're generating impression-based
ad revenue from every user
that comes through here.
It's amazing to us,
but what we have seen now is
that Version Tracker gets over
1 million searches per month
through the Sherlock channel,
so it's a significant
part of our business.
When users are in the search pages
and deeper than the homepage,
it's a more educated user,
and advertisers right now see that
this is a highly valuable position.
You've seen probably a couple
hundred different advertisers
come and go off the site,
but our revenue comes from the long haul.
Companies like CDW that are believing in
the Mac user and spending money online
with us definitely gives us the time,
the money,
and the manpower at Version Tracker
to further develop our product,
Version Tracker Pro.
And it also allows us to put your
developer's products out in front
of as many users as possible.
With Sherlock being in the dock and
version tracker being a channel,
it's very nice for us to increase our
brand awareness to all Mac users who are
not already aware of version tracker.
When a developer registers with
us and they post their product,
we expect to get that
out as quick as we can.
We also expect to get that out
to as many people as possible.
So, when you have the
application posted here,
In our Sherlock channel,
what you're going to see is that
it's coming down the home page.
On Version Tracker,
it's picked up instantly in
the Sherlock channel as well.
So for the developer,
your advantage is you're also reaching
these people through our Sherlock channel
that weren't on Version Tracker as well.
One other thing that we can
say about Sherlock is with
more OS X users coming on,
more Mac users all the time,
when they use this,
learn about Version Tracker,
we're also seeing an increase in
our sales for Version Tracker Pro.
And the last thing is that the strategic
positioning for version tracker in here
is we really feel like where the web
is going is users want to interface
with something like a Sherlock channel
so that they can come on,
make it part of their morning,
they're going to get on,
maybe look at their stocks,
check the software applications
that they care the most about.
And that's really all we have
to say from Version Tracker.
Thank you, Kevin.
Okay, go back to slides.
Okay, we can go back to slides.
So now I'd like to take a survey.
How many folks out there have
developed a Sherlock channel already?
Okay, a few.
How many folks are thinking about
maybe developing a Sherlock channel?
Quite a few.
Great.
Okay.
Well, you know,
this is really a developer opportunity.
As you saw,
you can provide a more compelling user
interface through a Sherlock channel,
much more immediate, right there.
You can update it on the web.
You can get to it from a
web link from your website.
But also, we built the channels
right into Sherlock,
so your user can see it either way.
And it's comfortable for users.
They can follow a link to get to it,
or they can simply select the
channel from within Sherlock.
And it provides better visibility
for your web services than just
having a website out in the sea of
millions and millions of websites.
So, if you'd like to develop a channel,
we've provided a number of tools built
right into Sherlock to help you do that.
There's actually a debug menu
in Sherlock that normally
isn't visible to most users,
but if you enable it,
you'll see a number of tools,
and we'll start to
talk about those later.
So the first step is, of course,
to develop your channel,
and that's what the bulk
of this talk will be about.
Once you've done that,
you can submit your channel to Apple.
And the way you do that,
we've got a menu item right
there in the debug menu.
You just choose that item
with your channel up front,
and you'll go right to a web page
that'll allow you to submit it to Apple.
And then we'll add it in.
It'll be built right into Sherlock.
So let's talk a bit about how
to create a Sherlock channel.
And first,
I want to kind of give an overview of
the structure of a Sherlock channel
to set the stage for understanding the
components and how they all fit together.
First, we'll talk about some channel
design principles briefly.
Then we'll go into some detail
about the key elements of a channel.
We'll give a demonstration of XQuery,
which is a great XML processing
technology that is under
development by the W3C.
That we've adopted in Sherlock.
And we'll talk about some of the
Sherlock extensions to that technology.
So first, briefly,
the channel design principles.
One thing to think about is
simply to focus on one topic.
Searching version tracker is an example.
Very specific purpose.
Finding movies, very specific purpose.
Another guideline is to -- it's
great when your channel launches
to have some information showing.
You'll note in the
version tracker channel,
the moment the channel was opened,
it showed the latest
updates on version tracker.
So the user didn't have to enter a query,
although they could,
but immediately they saw
relevant information.
A third thing to consider
is for performance reasons,
you really want to query
the web only when necessary.
Obviously, on the Internet,
there can be arbitrary delays.
And for our modem users,
it can take a long time to download
significant amounts of content.
So obviously,
there are times when you need to
query the Internet to get information.
But to keep that to a minimum,
cache stuff as much as possible,
which Sherlock provides
mechanisms to let you do.
Another guideline is
to remember user state.
If you go to a channel
and use it to do a search,
let's say for movies and
a particular zip code,
it's great if next time
you go to that channel,
it knows the zip code that
you entered last time so you
don't have to re-enter it.
That's a basic guideline.
And of course, follow the Aqua guidelines
as with any application.
So now let's talk in some
detail about what composes a
channel and how it's made up.
The key elements of the
channel are shown here,
the top one being the user interface,
the data store below that,
and then triggers and services,
and we'll talk about
each of those in turn.
So that's the user interface.
What's shown here is the user
interface for the Yellow Pages channel,
but it's really tiny and hard to see,
so let me zoom in a little bit.
So now we're looking at the text entry
field where you enter the category,
say,
like restaurants or the business name,
and you're seeing a little bit
of the results down below that.
So this is the user interface.
The question is how do you make
a user interface for Sherlock,
if you'd like to make a Sherlock channel?
And the answer is really it's the
same as making it for an application.
You use Interface Builder,
it creates Nib files.
The only difference is,
although it's like an
app in this respect,
it's not like an app in that there's no
Objective C code or C++ code or C code.
And it's web resident,
unlike an application.
So how do we do this?
Well,
we've added a palette inside Interface
Builder that lets you name the
UI elements in your user interface.
And you'll see later how that allows
us to make the channel do what it needs
to do without adding a lot of code.
So as an example,
in the Phonebook channel,
the main query field might be
named Phonebook.QueryField.
And it's sort of like a path
where dot is used as a separator,
and it can be arbitrarily deep.
The results down below might
be called Phonebook.Results.
And it, of course,
has structure within that that would
be accessed by adding dot more stuff.
So then there's the data store.
Now the data store is created
at the time you run a channel.
So it's not something you
have to put in your channel,
but it's created at the time you run.
And it contains all the data,
all the active data.
It contains temporary data that
you're using at the moment.
It also contains persistent data.
And it also reflects the data
that is contained in your UI.
It's a hierarchical structure made
up of arrays and dictionaries,
arbitrarily deep.
And it's addressed by these dotted
paths that I mentioned earlier.
Items in the data store can be created
at any time for your own purpose,
and they're created
as they're referenced.
Or it automatically,
when your channel runs,
directly reflects the
contents of your UI.
So you can access any value
that's in your UI by simply
reading a data store path,
and that will tell you
what the current value is.
If the user changes it,
you can be notified of that
change and you can respond to it.
But if you read the value
from that data store entry,
it will always reflect the current value.
If you write to that value,
it's going to change the UI.
So if you decide you want to change
the default on the text entry field,
you simply write a new string in
there and then the UI changes.
It's a very powerful metaphor for quickly
putting together a user interface.
The third area is triggers.
This is where you make things happen.
Triggers run whenever a particular
element of the data store changes.
And this may be an element
that's tied to user interface,
so if the user interface changes,
the trigger runs.
Or it may be an element that, say,
reflects data coming in from the web.
So the moment the data comes in,
a trigger can run to respond
to that data arriving.
A trigger can invoke services,
which we'll talk about in a bit,
and then perhaps perform calculations
based on the results of those calls,
and then change the UI.
So it's really the workhorse.
One way to think about triggers and
the JavaScript that you write in
triggers is it's very much analogous
to JavaScript on a web page.
You could think of the data store as
being like the DOM of the web page,
and the triggers as being the code that
causes changes to happen in that DOM.
And last,
I'd like to talk about the services.
Now, these are the basic ways you
get information from the web.
They're implemented in XQuery,
which is a powerful XML and
HTML processing language.
They let you query the web and say,
get a web page and extract the
information you need from that web page.
Or maybe you're querying a SOAP service
and extracting the information you
need from the XML that comes back.
It's also very good at constructing
XML in order to send queries
and processing the results.
One example is you might
create a service to,
given a city-state pair,
query the web and get back a list
of theaters that are available in
that particular city and state.
By packaging it as a service,
it then becomes one function call
that the JavaScript trigger can
call to get that information.
And the details of where it has
to go to get the information,
how that HTML is processed, perhaps,
or XML, and how to extract the results
is all hidden in the service.
So I want to say a
little bit about XQuery.
XQuery is a new emerging language
that is under development by the W3C.
And if you go to W3C.org,
you can see the current spec.
It's really designed for processing XML.
It has a relationship with XSLT,
and that both share XPath underneath.
So if you're familiar
with those standards,
XQuery would be pretty
straightforward to pick up.
So now I'd like to invite Jess back
up to demonstrate XQuery and
also the XPath Finder channel.
So we go to demo one, please.
So Jess has opened the
XPath Finder channel.
Now this is one of the channels that
you'll get in the development tools,
which you can subscribe to
directly from the debug menu.
It's really just a Sherlock channel,
but it helps you in
developing Sherlock channels.
So at the top there you see a text
field where you enter the URL.
So if we get the HTML from this website,
which is apple.com,
you'll see down below it displays
the content of the website,
and that's using a Safari WebKit view.
And up above it shows you the
structure of the HTML that is
being fetched from that site.
So it's a column browser and
you'll see HTML on the left.
We go ahead and select
HTML and drill down.
You'll see the two things happen.
One is we start to see the
tags that are within that.
So we see head and body and we
can click on body and go further.
But you'll also see that
down below as we drill down,
the content rendered below also changes.
So what we're doing is zooming in
through the content and seeing what
portion of the HTML page we're seeing.
This is a much more convenient
way of drilling down and finding
the bit of information you
want to extract than staring at
HTML and trying to figure it out.
Down at the bottom,
you'll see there's an XQuery path.
And this is the XQuery code
that is used to access what
you see in the display below.
So if you want to get
at that particular tab,
this is the XQuery code that will do it.
And in fact, it's an XPath path.
So let's go ahead and copy that
out of the XPathfinder channel.
And we'll switch over
to the XQuery channel.
The XQuery channel is used
for being able to execute and
test out any sort of XQuery.
It's a great way to learn XQuery.
Try something out, hit run,
and you'll see the results.
So let's go ahead and paste
it in the XQuery channel.
And if we can zoom in so we can
maybe read it a little bit better.
So you'll see there what this
XPath or XQuery is doing is,
it's fetching the document,
it's looking at the HTML tag within it,
and then going into the
body tag within that,
the center tag within that,
the table tag within that,
and the TR tag within that.
And that's how we zoom in on
the bit of data that we want.
But in fact, this is a little bit fragile
because if we change the order of
what's happening in the web page,
this may no longer work.
And so one of the things that we want to
be able to do is to make it more robust.
So the XPath channel is a
great starting point to get you
roughly where you want to be.
But then you probably want to
massage the expression a little
bit to make it more robust.
So, Jess, you want to... Jess Meyerson:
I guess I'm taking over at this point.
So I'm going to zoom you back
out so that I can type and change
things without making you feel ill.
And basically what I'm going to do here
is I'm going to append a bit of text,
which I will show you
when I zoom in again,
but I'm adding a path that
calls our source function,
and that's going to display the
results of what we execute in this
channel in a way that you can read.
Basically,
when you execute something in XQuery,
the data type that's returned
by default is an XML tree,
and so you need to sometimes convert that
into a human-readable form if you want
to play with it in the XQuery channel.
So just to make this
a little less fragile,
you would probably want
to do something like,
oh, take out HTML body and center.
Add a slash in there.
If you guys know about XQuery or if
you take an XQuery or XPath tutorial,
the double slash says,
"I want all tables in this document."
But then we know we want the first table,
so we're just going to
add in a brace that says,
"Give me the first
table." So let me zoom.
Well, first I'll run this,
and then I'll zoom in and
show you what I've done.
So basically,
this is giving you the same TR that
we got in the XPath Finder channel.
And I'll zoom in here.
And you can see I've been able to remove
three path elements in my command,
and so that's basically three
fewer things that can break if the
web page you're querying changes.
I think that's about it.
Great.
Thanks, Jess.
Okay, let's go back to slides.
So as you can see,
we've provided the tools to make
it easy to get at the information
you need to on the web and extract
it for use in your channel.
We've also provided some
extensions to both JavaScript,
which is used in triggers, and XQuery,
which is used in services,
to make it easier to do
different kinds of HTTP requests,
for example,
posts and dealing with cookies and
headers and those sorts of things,
to deal with URL encoding
and translation,
and to do data matching,
which is kind of the traditional
Sherlock 2 way of extracting information.
So now I'd like to invite Jessica back
up to go into much more detail
about how to actually develop
a channel that nitty-gritty.
Welcome, Jess.
Thank you.
Hi, everybody.
As Wayne said before,
I'm the channel development lead,
and I'm gonna talk to you about
how to actually get started
with developing your channels.
Please forgive me if I'm rushing through,
but I'm a little short on time
and I want to make sure that we
have plenty of time for questions.
Okay.
So, what I'm going to cover today is
developing channels in four steps.
That's honestly all it takes.
Then I'm going to cover a little of
what's new for developers in Panther,
and then a few advanced topics.
So what are the four steps
for developing channels?
You create your channel,
you customize your channel,
you probably have to debug your channel,
and then you deploy your channel.
So I'm going to talk about
creating your channel first.
So the steps to creating the
channel all involve using Xcode,
our development environment,
which you've probably
all received on your CDs.
And the first step that you want to take
is launch Xcode and create a new project.
And you'll find that in
your list of choices,
you can choose to create
a Sherlock channel.
We've provided a template
for that kind of project.
So choose to make one of those.
Next,
you're going to be presented with a panel
to save your channel project somewhere,
and make sure you save it in
an HTTP accessible directory.
When you deploy your channel,
it goes out on the web,
but to be able to test
your channel locally,
it needs to be in either the global web
server documents folder or maybe in your
sites folder in your user directory.
Next, make sure you turn on
personal web sharing.
It'll save you a lot of pain.
You're going to wonder why
your channel's not showing up,
and it's because you forgot to
turn on personal web sharing.
So you do that in the Sharing Preference
panel in System Preferences.
Finally, go back to Xcode and build
and run your project.
Basically, Sherlock's going to launch,
and it's going to launch with
the right environment variable
set to get the debug menu.
In the debug menu,
you want to add your channel to Sherlock.
We've realized that this is an extra
step that you probably don't want to do,
so in future revisions,
hopefully we will automate that for you,
but remember to add your channel.
This will present you with
a dialogue where you have to
type in a little Sherlock URL,
but there's one there by default,
so you really only have to edit
a couple of pieces of it to
make sure that it's pointing to
your channel's definition file.
Once you hit add, then Sherlock's going
to display your channel.
But it's our channel,
because it's the one in the template.
So this probably isn't
exactly what you want.
That's why you're going to customize it.
So customizing your
channel involves two steps.
You give your channel its own identity,
and then you enhance our starter
code to meet your specific needs.
Giving your channel its own
identity involves naming it,
describing it, setting its identifier,
and then giving it a beautiful icon to
really attract your customers to it.
Naming is pretty simple.
It's done in the localized
resources plist file.
That's where all strings that could
be displayed in multiple languages
are defined in a Sherlock channel.
So that you can see what
that file actually contains,
I've highlighted the channel name key,
and then I've named my
channel WWDC 2003 Example.
In that same file,
you can describe your channel.
That's the channel description key,
and I've said this example demonstrates
basic channel development tasks.
What's that going to get you?
Well, setting the name and setting
the description is going to show
up in the other channels view,
in our channel management view.
So you want to make sure
that you describe accurately
what your channel does,
sell it a little bit,
it'll get users to click on it.
Set its identifier.
This is important not for your customers,
but for Sherlock.
If you've developed applications on
our platform outside of Sherlock,
a Cocoa app, a Carbon app,
you're probably familiar with the
concept of a bundle identifier,
and this is basically the same thing,
but for Sherlock.
Here, I've set the identifier to
com.apple.wwdc2003_example.
So just like with bundle identifiers,
a three-part string comprised of com,
your company, your product name,
will make it sufficiently
unique that you probably won't
collide with other channels.
Finally, the last bit is to give
it a beautiful icon.
This is really important.
It puts a level of polish on
your channel that users are
really going to appreciate.
I can't emphasize enough that giving
your channel an identity that makes
users want to double-click on it in
the other channels' view is going
to give you a larger customer base.
How can you give it a beautiful icon?
Well, briefly,
you can download the Aqua Icon
Kit from our developer website,
or you can hire a professional design
agency if you're not a graphic artist.
So you've given your channel an identity,
but it still does what
our default channel does.
So enhance the starter
code to meet your needs.
Back to the diagram that
Wayne was using earlier,
channels consist of interface, triggers,
and services, at least from a
developer's point of view.
That's the stuff that you need
to worry about customizing.
First, we're going to talk about
customizing the interface.
As Wayne mentioned,
the interface is designed
with Interface Builder.
It's the same as a regular nib used in
any other kind of app on our platform.
What's the point of the interface?
Well, you display a pretty
picture to your users,
but also you need to set up data
in the interface to connect your
triggers so that when your user
interacts with your channel,
something happens to execute
a search out onto the web.
So here I've opened up channel.nib,
which is the default nib that comes as a
result of creating the Sherlock channel
in the project template in Xcode.
And I've clicked on the search button,
and now I've gotten info about
it with the project inspector,
or the nib inspector, rather.
So as Wayne mentioned earlier, again,
you can assign these Sherlock names
or Sherlock IDs to UI elements,
and this is where you do it.
Choose the Sherlock item
from the pop-up there,
and then your main view
has its own identifier,
and then you can identify the button.
So here I've named it
Internet.SearchButton.
This is going to be useful
to us in my next example.
So, let's move on.
Triggers are executed when a value
for a data store path changes or
when the data store path is notified.
So, you can programmatically just
sort of touch a data store path
inside of a trigger and that can
cause the trigger to execute,
another trigger to execute.
Triggers tend to use JavaScript.
Why?
Because JavaScript is going to
execute in a linear and more
deterministic fashion than XQuery.
If you're familiar with channel
development at all or you've
looked at any of our sample stuff,
in XQuery, you can return a dictionary,
right?
And the keys can be data store paths and
you can be setting values to those paths.
But there's no guarantee
that if the dictionary has,
say, four items in it,
they're going to return in that order.
So, sometimes order is important,
so it's better to use
JavaScript and datastore.set.
So here's an example of a trigger,
and I'm going to whiz past the screen
because you probably can't read it,
but triggers tend to live in
a file called channel.xml.
And they look something like this.
So think back to that inspector where
we set internet.searchbutton.action
is one of the default
datastore paths for NSButtons.
You're going to want to check
out our documentation on the web,
the inside Mac-like documentation.
All of the default datastore
paths for any particular kind
of object are listed there,
including NSButton actions.
So briefly,
what this trigger is doing is using
DatastoreSet to set the results table to
a particular -- it's setting it to null,
to empty it out.
It's turning on the network
arrows via another default path,
.animating,
and then it's kicking off a search
by notifying or touching another
datastore path to perform the search.
Okay, services.
You want to perform your search,
you want to do this in a service.
So that next data store path will
probably execute a search service.
Services are called by triggers.
They encapsulate data
source transactions,
as Wayne was mentioning.
We find that this makes it easier
to maintain a channel because
it's much more likely that your
service is going to need periodic
maintenance when the web changes.
So to isolate that from your
channel trigger code means
that when you need to change to
accommodate a change to a website,
you're only changing your services file,
and you don't need to upload
your whole channel file again.
They tend to use XQuery because
it's a great XML parsing mechanism.
So again, you can't really see this,
but SOAP.xml is actually a
services file that we ship today,
and we use it ourselves
in our shipping channels.
And basically this is just a definition
of a function called SOAP query.
It takes a few parameters.
It's using the dictionary
call to set up HTTP headers,
and then it's doing a post
with the headers and asking for
the data back from that post,
returning it.
Pretty simple to execute a SOAP query.
So, I've gone running through how
you can make your channel.
You've given it an identity,
you've customized it to talk
to your web service and return
your results to your users,
and ideally, it would just work fine.
But it probably doesn't.
And if the web changes, as it often does,
and your service changes,
you might need to debug it.
Debugging in channels is a
little different than debugging
a Cocoa app or a Carbon app,
and so you need to
learn a few new tricks.
First, you need to make liberal use of
message and debug statements,
which are sort of like printf,
but message is for XQuery and
debug is for JavaScript.
More importantly, I think,
is liberal use of the XQuery and
JavaScript channels during
your channel development phase.
I'll explain why in a bit.
Finally, there's the enhanced debug menu,
which Wayne mentioned.
We've had a debug menu all along,
but we've added a lot more
interesting stuff to it in Panther,
a lot more useful stuff for you.
First, message and debug.
Again, message is used in XQuery code.
Basically,
this little sample is getting the
HTML down from Apple's website.
Then it's logging it out.
If you execute message statements,
you will find that they -- if
you're running Sherlock from
within Project Builder,
or rather Xcode,
as we are in this example,
you'll find these message
statements in its console.
But if you're just running
Sherlock standalone without Xcode,
you're going to want to look in
console app for these messages.
So it's logging out the HTML from
the site and then continuing
along and returning what it
wanted to return from the service.
Similarly, you can use debug.
I've basically done the same thing here,
just making use of the XML query
JavaScript object and calling document,
getting the data,
debugging it out to the console,
and returning it.
More importantly, though, as I said,
XQuery and JavaScript channels.
You didn't see the
JavaScript channel earlier,
but it's the same concept
as the XQuery channel,
which we did demonstrate.
Why do you want to use these?
You really want to unit test blocks of
code as you're developing your channel,
so that when you paste it
into your channel file,
you just know it works.
A caveat, though.
In your channel file,
because it's an XML file,
you need to escape special characters.
So, you know,
a less than symbol would have
to be ampersand LT colon to
work in your channel file.
To work in the XQuery channel,
you don't want to escape it.
It's not an XML file.
So you just need to sort of global
search and replace ampersand
LT for a real less than sign.
Make sure you do that.
So, a little picture of what these do.
Here I've got an XQuery channel
picture up there.
I'm getting, again,
the data from Apple.com.
I've got a little XQuery executing
to grab all the image tags,
and then I'm asking for
their source attributes.
And when you hit run,
all the source attributes get
put out in the results area.
Similarly, the JavaScript channel.
I couldn't really think
of a good example,
so I'm just checking that
5 plus 16 still equals 21.
And in fact, it did.
Finally, the debug menu.
So the way you turn it on,
although someone's edited
my slide to capitalize D,
and you don't want to do that,
you want to turn it on
with a defaults command,
which is executed in terminal, defaults,
write, com.apple.sherlock,
Sherlock debug, 1.
The next time you launch Sherlock,
it's going to come up
with the debug menu.
And there are a number
of things we've added.
You can turn on and off
different levels of logging.
You can turn off HTTP caching,
which is pretty excellent as
you're developing a channel,
because you're making
changes all the time.
So you'd rather just have
the fresh copy right away,
as soon as you've made a change.
You can look at the data store
and also tickle the data store.
You can change its
values or notify things.
You can look at your NSVU hierarchy.
All kinds of good stuff in there.
All right, so hopefully now you've got
the tools to debug your channel
and you're ready to deploy it.
So there are a few things to
think about when you're deploying.
First is, do you want to use
subscriptions and checkpoints?
Once you've decided all that,
you've got to figure out how to FTP your
files to the web server of your choice,
and then you just submit
your channel to Apple,
and it shows up in our
other channels view.
This is kind of a wordy slide,
and I'm going to gloss over it.
Subscriptions and checkpoints.
So the subscription file lists
channels you're deploying.
It's useful when you ship
multiple channels like Apple does.
So we use subscriptions for,
for instance, our Apple channels,
our other channels,
which are the third-party channels,
our channel development tools,
all of those things that show
up in the left-hand column of
the channel management view.
They will increase your channel's
visibility if you choose to use a
subscription for that very reason,
that they'll show up as a separate
folder or collection on that left-hand
side of the channel management view.
And they're also very
convenient for your user,
because if you're shipping
multiple channels,
if you want to deploy them one by one,
the user has to click on a
URL each time to add a channel,
one at a time.
So just ship them all at
once in a subscription,
and they just have to
add the subscription,
they're done.
Why else are they useful?
Well, subscriptions allow you to
control who sees your channels.
In a subscription file,
you can require specific
Sherlock versions or require
a specific geographic region,
for instance.
Okay, now that you've decided to
use a subscription file,
perhaps, you need to wonder as to whether
you want to use checkpoints.
What are checkpoints?
Basically,
you can designate certain files in
your channel hierarchy as a checkpoint,
and it helps Sherlock to
know what's changed.
So if you change the mod
date on your web server,
once you've deployed,
of a file that is a checkpoint,
Sherlock's going to know that it
should take a look at everything
below that and possibly update it.
All right, so you're using a
subscription or you're not,
you're using checkpoints or you're not.
Either way, you're FTPing your files
to a public web server.
You could deploy on your
company's web server,
you could deploy on .Mac if
you've got a .Mac account,
you could deploy on any HTTP server.
If you're using a channel for
internal purposes at your company,
you can deploy on something like that.
But if the channel is external,
make sure you submit
your channel to Apple.
We can't stress enough how much this is
going to raise your channel's visibility.
So in that debug menu,
use the Submit Channel menu item,
and your channel will appear in
the other channels collection.
So hopefully,
I should note at this point actually
that the reason I'm glossing over
the details of some of these things,
like how do you create a
subscription file and what
does a checkpoint look like,
it's because it is actually pretty
well covered in our documentation.
And so if you take a look at the
inside Mac-like documentation
out on developer.apple.com,
also you want to take a look definitely
at the release notes on your CDs that you
got in developer documentation release
notes because we took great care to
update them with all the new information,
which is what I'm going
to talk about right now.
So what's new for
Sherlock Channel developers in Panther?
We've got some user
interface enhancements.
We've got inter-application communication
abilities that weren't there before.
We've added some support
for Address Book.
We've added per-channel help
support for Help Viewer.
And we've added some versioning
capabilities so that you can
adopt all of these things safely.
First off, the interface enhancements.
In NS Table View,
we've changed it so that you
can turn on type selection in
columns or in entire tables.
You have more control over whether
users can delete rows or not.
You can set the scroll
position of the table.
You can have check boxes in table cells.
And table sorting can be
done for you automatically.
We've changed the NS Combo box, too.
There,
we've changed it so that you can turn
on text selection on first mouse down,
or you can turn that off.
And you have just generally greater
control over the list behavior.
The HTML view, of course,
is now using the fabulous WebKit,
and that's going to add a lot
of capabilities if you want to
display more complicated HTML.
You can set the default car set.
So let's say you've narrowed down a
chunk of HTML in one of your services,
and in so doing, you've managed to strip
out the car set tag.
You can just tell the web view that
every time you're displaying HTML,
the default car set should be whatever.
Finally,
you can turn on browsing within Sherlock.
So links will be followed within
your HTML view versus if the user
clicks on a link now in Jaguar,
rather.
If they click on a link,
it will definitely be sent out to
the default handler for HTTP URLs.
So you can actually just browse within
Sherlock now because the WebKit is
powerful enough to handle that.
Inter-application Communication.
So, Sherlock is a playground,
and that makes it safe for users,
and we think it's pretty
easy to develop for,
but it's not the only app out there.
So, maybe your channel wants to
talk with other applications.
We've enabled this by using special URLs.
So, there are address book URLs,
iCal and WebCal URLs to talk to iCal,
and help URLs so that you can open
Help Viewer from within your channel.
The way you would use these URLs is
you create one in your channel source,
and then you send it to the
JavaScript system object
with the open URL command.
And if the URL's in there,
the system object will decide
what the proper handler for that
scheme is via Launch Services,
and the right application will be opened.
Address Book Support.
So, as you saw in the phonebook channel,
we've got combo boxes that do
all kinds of neat completion.
They complete city-states,
they complete on titles in
the user's address book,
they'll even complete,
you didn't see this,
but they will complete on addresses
in the user's address book.
So, that's done in the
Sherlock address combo box.
We've packaged it up so that you can
just drag it in Interface Builder,
drag a combo box in,
change the custom type to
Sherlock address combo box,
and you've got the same functionality
we have in the phonebook channel.
Also,
there's a JavaScript address book object,
and through that object,
you can add things to
the user's address book,
and you can search the
user's address book.
Per-channel help.
It's really good user experience.
It's basic Aqua savvy to
provide help for your software
and to do so in Help Viewer.
And so we've enabled that in Panther.
Basically,
you tell us where your help file is,
and we take care of the rest.
We add an item to the help menu
that points to your channel's help.
We open it when the
user chooses that item.
You're going to want to take advantage
of versioning if you take advantage
of any of these new functionality,
of any of this new functionality, though.
If you're familiar with the concept
of Gestalts or anything like that,
you can check to see that something
is there before you use it or you can
check to see that Sherlock itself is
a particular version before you use
something and that's done by checking for
the existence of new JavaScript objects.
You can call channel version from X query
and that will give you back the version
of Sherlock and you can use version or
max version attributes on triggers or
services or subscriptions and again,
this is all covered in the documentation
so I won't go into the exact details.
Very briefly,
because I know I'm running out of time,
advanced topics, three of them,
the most important in my opinion.
Localized resources, printing,
and performance tips.
If you take advantage of any
of these three advanced things,
you're going to provide your user
with a much better user experience.
Localized resources.
So, not everybody in the world
speaks the language that you're
developing your channel in.
And if you have the ability to localize
your channel into other languages,
Sherlock will let you do that.
Basically, you set a localized base URL,
which tells Sherlock where to
look for your localized resources.
And then you can access localized
resources from your code as well.
So,
if you're setting a string dynamically,
so let's say you're setting a
label from within a trigger with a
datastore.set to the label's path,
you would call localized resource,
get the right string, and then set it.
You can also call localized
URL to get a URL that points
into the right Elproj directory.
Printing - channels
can be kind of complex.
There's a lot of information in there,
particularly because you're
aggregating information from
multiple websites or you're trying to
do better than a web page could do,
and so you're showing a lot of stuff.
I mean,
let's look at the phone book channel.
We've got tables of results.
We've got driving directions.
We've got a big map.
Sometimes that looks great in Sherlock,
but it doesn't look great when you print
it out on an 8 1/2 by 11 piece of paper,
and so I can't help but stress
that if you print it out and
it doesn't look too good,
your user is really not
going to appreciate that.
Create a custom print view.
You just add a new view to your nib.
You reorganize your UI elements so
that it will look good for 8 1/2 by 11,
and then if you do that,
be sure to set your channel's main
view identifier data store path so
that as Sherlock loads your channel,
it knows that one view is actually
the view to show in Sherlock and
the other view is your print view.
Performance tips: Nobody likes to use a
channel that's slow,
and we've been working
to make ours faster,
and I want to share with you a little
bit of what we've learned about that.
Avoid initialize bloat.
Initialize is a special chunk
of code that all executes
before your channel shows up.
There's a lot of stuff that we were
doing in initialize that did not have
to be done before the channel appeared.
If you are doing stuff that doesn't
have to be done in initialize,
move it to a later trigger.
Execute any given XPath only once.
So let's take a little example.
Let's say I download some HTML with the
document command and it's in a variable,
$HTML.
And I wanna get all the anchors
in that HTML and then I'm
gonna need all of the anchors,
Ahrefs,
and all of the text for those anchors.
Well, I could say $HTML/A/text,
and then $HTML/A/@href.
But since I'm doing //a twice,
and that might be expensive,
why don't I save that in a variable?
Next, favor cache update for
infrequently changed resources.
We've made use of this ourselves,
and basically it's a flag that
you can set on an HTTP request.
And if you know a resource out on the
web isn't going to change very often,
there's an image out there
that's pretty static,
if you set that flag,
you're able to get the
image from the cache first,
and then Sherlock will go check
to see if it's changed and
pull it down in the background.
So the next time you access it,
you'll have the new thing in the cache.
Stream return data into the
view as it becomes available.
Examples of where we do this
are the pictures channel
and the internet channel.
If you have some info first
and you're waiting for others,
don't make your user wait.
Splat it out into the view
and wait for your stuff,
and then splat the next stuff out.
Finally,
show cache data first and then refresh.
Wayne mentioned this as a tactic for
having a good channel user interface.
We do this in the movies channel.
If you do a movie search and we get
your list of theaters and movies,
we'll show that to the user again
the next time they launch and
then update it in the background.
So I'm going to invite Wayne back
up for a wrap-up for our session.
Thank you, Jess.
So in summary, Sherlock allows you to
deliver web services today.
You can create them quickly.
They're updatable on the web.
They provide a native Aqua UI,
much like an application.
But you can link to them directly from
the web or launch them from the dock.
And in Panther,
they're built right into Sherlock.
So for a roadmap,
now of course all of these
sessions have already happened,
but for those of you watching on DVD,
or if you'd like to get the DVDs,
The Internet Technology Safari Overview
provides a high-level overview of
the technologies used by Safari and,
of course, by Sherlock as well.
The WebKit and the Foundation URL APIs.
If you'd like to add
help to your channel,
then you might be interested
in session 408 for the
Apple Help updates and how-tos.
The next one there is more
about Safari and web standards,
which again is interesting
for HTML views and such.
And then the session,
Internet Application Development:
The New Frontier,
is an environment provided by
Macromedia that aims to provide
Internet applications that may
also be of interest if you're
doing a lot of graphics like you
would in a Flash kind of context.
And of course,
our friend John is the guy to contact
if you'd like to ask for features
or any sort of thing like that.
And for more information,
there's the Sherlock Developer web page,
which is very easy to get to:
developer.apple.com/macos10/sherlock.
It has all the information
you need there.
There's a mailing list if
you'd like to ask questions.
If you're in the midst of channel
development and you run into a problem
you're not sure how to deal with,
please ask on the mailing list.
We're more than happy to
answer questions there,
or other developers will
also chime in and answer.
Inside Mac OS X Sherlock Channels
is the documentation for how
to create Sherlock Channels,
and that's up at the developer website.
And it's also on your disk.
And then of course the release
notes will tell you specifically
new features that have been added
in various releases along the way,
including Panther.
If you'd like to learn more
about the JavaScript language,
there are lots and lots
of references out there.
The sort of main standard
reference is out on the ECMA site,
and there's the URL there.
But of course,
there are many books out on JavaScript.
XQuery is much newer, of course,
and it's not yet a final standard.
And so there really aren't
as many references out there.
But the main reference
is at the W3C site.
And this is both the language and
then the functions it provides.